Buffer overflow on heap (#15)
dead-seeds/Course2: Semester1/OperatingSystems/Exotic/Buffer overflow.md

![[Pasted image 20231011175116.png]]
Another moment... Stack has a finite size, soo if the user input is longer than the stack space, the program cannot verify it and stack overflows. The overflow can become a security threat or loophole when combined with malicious inputs.

### Heap-based overflow

https://github.com/shellphish/how2heap - repo with many types of heap exploitation techniques.

You cannot overwrite the return address of `main` like you could with a stack based buffer overflow. Like information on the stack, though, the compiler might put things in places that you might not expect.

* Overwriting Function Pointers:
http://hamsa.cs.northwestern.edu/readings/heap-overflows/

By overflowing a buffer and overwriting the function pointers stored on the heap, an attacker can change the flow of execution and cause the application to call malicious code with elevated privileges.

* [[free()]] exploit:
https://www.win.tue.nl/~aeb/linux/hh/hh-11.html#ss11.2
https://www.opennet.ru/base/sec/heap_overflow.txt.html - Opennet is cringe, but this old paper is very good for understanding.

> By overflowing a buffer and overwriting the metadata associated with an object stored on the heap, you might be able to overwrite the memory table pointer so that when `free()` runs, it frees up something other than what it originally allocated. When overwriting the size field, we must take care that the computed location of the next chunk lies in allocated memory, to not to cause segfault in [[free()]]. 

Reviewer: must be careful?
```suggestion
By overflowing a buffer and overwriting the metadata associated with an object stored on the heap, you might be able to overwrite the memory table pointer so that when `free()` runs, it frees up something other than what it originally allocated. When overwriting the size field, we must be careful that the computed location of the next chunk lies in allocated memory, to not to cause segfault in [[free()]]. 
```

> By overflowing a buffer and overwriting the metadata associated with an object stored on the heap, you might be able to overwrite the memory table pointer so that when `free()` runs, it frees up something other than what it originally allocated. When overwriting the size field, we must take care that the computed location of the next chunk lies in allocated memory, to not to cause segfault in [[free()]]. 

Reviewer: not to cause a segfault?
```suggestion
By overflowing a buffer and overwriting the metadata associated with an object stored on the heap, you might be able to overwrite the memory table pointer so that when `free()` runs, it frees up something other than what it originally allocated. When overwriting the size field, we must take care that the computed location of the next chunk lies in allocated memory, not to cause a segfault in [[free()]]. 
```
